this delicate brooch dates from the mid
Victorian period and is a rare and
stunning example of micro mosaic jewelry
popular throughout the 19th century
micro mosaics are created by placing
many tiny polychrome opaque glass or
hard stone tiles known as Tesori
together to form a scene they enjoyed
their first wave of popularity after
Napoleon's Italian campaign of 1796 when
typically Italian jewelry such as cameos
and mosaics were brought across Europe
and entered the French fashions Empress
Josephine helped to cement the
popularity of such jewelry decorating
her bodice and adorning her hair with
intricate micro mosaics for the next
hundred years
foreign travel started to become more
accessible and Italy was the favored
destination for the wealthy French and
English families as a result Italian
craftsmen started to produce relatively
large quantities of reasonably priced
micro mosaic jewels intended for the
tourist trade these pieces typically
depicted traditional Italian
architecture and fine pieces became more
and more rare as the general quality
began to deteriorate towards the end of
the century this brooch offered as lot
seventeen in our forthcoming antique and
run jewelry sale is part of this rich
history but is exceptional not only
because of the fineness of the tesserae
and the vibrant colors utilized but
because of the overall condition the
majority of micro mosaics displaying
this level of fineness have simply not
survived or have suffered cracked or
lost tiles the subject matter depicting
two birds in flight possibly lovebirds
encapsulate s' the Victorian obsession
with sentimentality and symbolism
mounted an 18 karat gold and measuring
6.8 centimeters this superb brooch is
offered with an estimate of two to
two-and-a-half thousand pounds
you